This on-site crash investigation focused on the high-voltage components and the lithium-ion battery of a Chevrolet Volt.  The Chevrolet, driven by a 50-year-old restrained male, was involved in a front-to-rear crash sequence with three other vehicles.  OnStar® provided notification of the crash to General Motors (GM).  The crash resulted in an OnStar®-reported longitudinal delta V of -28 km/h (-17 mph) that deployed the driver's frontal air bag, the knee bolster air bag, and both Inflatable Curtain (IC) air bags in the Chevrolet Volt.  Subsequently, GM forwarded the notification to the Crash Investigation Division (CID) of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).  The CID informed the Calspan Special Crash Investigations (SCI) team of the crash on April 9, 2012, and assigned the case for on-site investigation.   The SCI team contacted the GM Engineer who inspected the Chevrolet and gained cooperation from the owner of the auto body shop that was in possession of the vehicle.  The on-site portion of the investigation took place April 11, 2012.  The SCI investigation involved the inspection and documentation of the Chevrolet's exterior damage, the status of the high-voltage components, a thorough check for coolant loss from the lithium-ion battery pack, interior damage, and the attempted imaging of the Event Data Recorder (EDR).

The Police Crash Report (PAR) was obtained from the investigating police department and the crash site was documented.  The crash occurred with the front plane of the Chevrolet Volt impacting the back plane of a 2009 Toyota Camry.  The force of the impact displaced the Toyota forwarded into a chain reaction crash with a 2011 Ford Edge and a 2002 Ford Focus.  The Toyota was located at a local tow yard and was inspected.  The Ford Edge was reportedly towed from the scene; however, it could not be located.  The Ford Focus drove away from the scene. These two vehicles were not inspected.  No one involved in the crash was injured.
